# Pandas-challenge

##   Heroes of Pymoli
The data provided for this assignment is of a gaming company that consists of the purchase data of customers. The analysis is for the data of a fantasy game, Heroes of Pymoli. The python script in this assignment utilizes the pandas and numpy libraries. The agenda is to generate a report that breaks down the game's purchasing data into meaningful insights. The measures that were calculated in the report is as follows:
	
* Player count: The total number of players were calculated using len() and value_counts() on the SN(name) column. There were 576 players in total.
	
* Purchasing Analysis(Total): The purchasing analysis summary was calculated by finding the unique items, average price of the purchases and the total revenue that was generated by sales. The total revenue generated from 780 purchases is $2,379.77.
	
* Gender Demographics: The summary for gender demographics was created by calculating the percentage and count of male players, female players and other/non-disclosed players, and updating the formatting accordingly. It can be noted that the maximum percentage of players are male with a total count of 484, with a percentage of 84.03%, followed by female players at 81, that is 14.06%. 
	
* Purchasing Analysis (Gender): In this analysis, the calculations were made based on the gender of the customers, for purchase count, average purchase price, total purchase value, average total purchase per person. The analysis numbers show that the male customers have the highest number of purchases with a total purchase value of $1967.64. However, the average purchase per person is almost the same for customers, of all gender categories.

* Age Demographics: The total count of players and percentage of players were calculated based on the age categories created using the binning feature of pandas. This analysis shows that the maximum count of players are in the age range of 20-24 years.

* Purchasing Analysis (Age):  The binning concept was used again to do the purchasing analysis by age. The basic calculations were made to obtain purchase count, average purchase price, total purchase value and average purchase total per person. This analysis also infers that the purchase count and hence total purchase value is higher in the age range of 20-24 years.

* Top Spenders: The basic calculations were made to analyze the top spenders using the sorting function in pandas. When the dataframe is sorted, the top spenders are displayed in the results. 

* Most popular items: To determine the most popular items, the columns items were grouped and then by using the count and mean functions, the purchase count and average item price were calculated. The product of these resulted in total purchase value. Sorting of these numbers in the dataframe resulted in the table of most popular items. 

* Most profitable items: The most popular items were sorted, based on the total purchase value to arrive at the most profitable items. The item that has the highest purchase count is 'Final Critic' with a total purchase value of $59.99.
 